

---

I was beginning to get very tired of sitting by my sister on the bank, and of having nothing to do. Once or twice, I had peeped into the book she was reading, but it had no pictures or conversations in it. "And what is the use of a book," I thought, "without pictures or conversations?"

So I was considering in my own mind (as well as I could, for the hot day made me feel very sleepy and stupid), whether the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by me.

There was nothing so very remarkable in that; nor did I think it so very much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself, "Oh dear! Oh dear! I shall be late!" (When I thought it over afterwards, it occurred to me that I ought to have wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed quite natural); but when the Rabbit actually took a watch out of its waistcoat-pocket, and looked at it, and then hurried on, I started to my feet, for it flashed across my mind that I had never before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to take out of it, and burning with curiosity, I ran across the field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge.

In another moment, down I went after it, never once considering how in the world I was to get out again.

The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way, and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that I had not a moment to think about stopping myself before I found myself falling down a very deep well.

Either the well was very deep, or I fell very slowly, for I had plenty of time as I went down to look about me and to wonder what was going to happen next. First, I tried to look down and make out what I was coming to, but it was too dark to see anything; then I looked at the sides of the well, and noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves; here and there I saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs. I took down a jar from one of the shelves as I passed; it was labelled "ORANGE MARMALADE", but to my great disappointment, it was empty: I did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing somebody underneath, so I managed to put it into one of the cupboards as I fell past it.

"Well!" I thought to myself, "after such a fall as this, I shall think nothing of tumbling down stairs! How brave they’ll all think me at home! Why, I wouldn’t say anything about it, even if I fell off the top of the house!" (Which was very likely true.)

Down, down, down. Would the fall never come to an end? "I wonder how many miles I’ve fallen by this time?" I said aloud. "I must be getting somewhere near the centre of the earth. Let me see: that would be four thousand miles down, I think—" (for, you see, I had learnt several things of this sort in my lessons in the schoolroom, and though this was not a very good opportunity for showing off my knowledge, as there was no one to listen to me, still it was good practice to say it over) "—yes, that’s about the right distance—but then I wonder what Latitude or Longitude I’ve got to?" (I had no idea what Latitude was, or Longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to say.)


Presently she began again. “I wonder if I shall fall right _through_ the earth! How funny it’ll seem to come out among the people that walk with their heads downward! The Antipathies, I think—” (she was rather glad there _was_ no one listening, this time, as it didn’t sound at all the right word) “—but I shall have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know. Please, Ma’am, is this New Zealand or Australia?” (and she tried to curtsey as she spoke—fancy _curtseying_ as you’re falling through the air! Do you think you could manage it?) “And what an ignorant little girl she’ll think me for asking! No, it’ll never do to ask: perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere.”

Down, down, down. There was nothing else to do, so I soon began talking again. “Dinah’ll miss me very much to-night, I should think!” (Dinah was the cat.) “I hope they’ll remember her saucer of milk at tea-time. Dinah my dear! I wish you were down here with me! There are no mice in the air, I’m afraid, but you might catch a bat, and that’s very like a mouse, you know. But do cats eat bats, I wonder?” And here I began to get rather sleepy, and went on saying to myself, in a dreamy sort of way, “Do cats eat bats? Do cats eat bats?” and sometimes, “Do bats eat cats?” for, you see, as I couldn’t answer either question, it didn’t much matter which way I put it. I felt that I was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that I was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very earnestly, “Now, Dinah, tell me the truth: did you ever eat a bat?” when suddenly, thump! thump! down I came upon a heap of sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.

I was not a bit hurt, and I jumped up on to my feet in a moment: I looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before me was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in sight, hurrying down it. There was not a moment to be lost: away I went like the wind, and was just in time to hear it say, as it turned a corner, “Oh my ears and whiskers, how late it’s getting!” I was close behind it when I turned the corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen: I found myself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging from the roof.

There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked; and when I had been all the way down one side and up the other, trying every door, I walked sadly down the middle, wondering how I was ever to get out again.

Suddenly I came upon a little three-legged table, all made of solid glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key, and my first thought was that it might belong to one of the doors of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too large, or the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of them. However, on the second time round, I came upon a low curtain I had not noticed before, and behind it was a little door about fifteen inches high: I tried the little golden key in the lock, and to my great delight it fitted!


I opened the door and found that it led into a small passage, not much larger than a rat-hole. I knelt down and looked along the passage into the loveliest garden I ever saw. How I longed to get out of that dark hall and wander about among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains. But I could not even get my head through the doorway. "And even if my head would go through," I thought, "it would be of very little use without my shoulders. Oh, how I wish I could shut up like a telescope! I think I could, if I only knew how to begin." For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things had happened lately, that I had begun to think that very few things indeed were really impossible.

There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so I went back to the table, half hoping I might find another key on it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like telescopes. This time I found a little bottle on it. "Which certainly was not here before," I said to myself. Round the neck of the bottle was a paper label, with the words "DRINK ME," beautifully printed on it in large letters.

It was all very well to say "Drink me," but the wise little Alice was not going to do that in a hurry. "No, I’ll look first," I said, "and see whether it’s marked ‘poison’ or not"; for I had read several nice little histories about children who had got burnt, and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant things, all because they would not remember the simple rules their friends had taught them: such as, that a red-hot poker will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your finger very deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and I had never forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked "poison," it is almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or later.

However, this bottle was not marked "poison," so I ventured to taste it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort of mixed flavour of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast,) I very soon finished it off.

"What a curious feeling!" I said; "I must be shutting up like a telescope." And so it was indeed: I was now only ten inches high, and my face brightened up at the thought that I was now the right size for going through the little door into that lovely garden. First, however, I waited for a few minutes to see if I was going to shrink any further. I felt a little nervous about this; "for it might end," I said to myself, "in my going out altogether, like a candle. I wonder what I should be like then?" And I tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is like after the candle is blown out, for I could not remember ever having seen such a thing.

After a while, finding that nothing more happened, I decided on going into the garden at once. But, alas for poor Alice! When I got to the door, I found I had forgotten the little golden key. When I went back to the table for it, I found I could not possibly reach.


“What a curious feeling!” I said; “I must be shutting up like a telescope.” And so it was indeed: I was now only ten inches high, and my face brightened up at the thought that I was now the right size for going through the little door into that lovely garden. First, however, I waited for a few minutes to see if I was going to shrink any further. I felt a little nervous about this; “for it might end,” I said to myself, “in my going out altogether, like a candle. I wonder what I should be like then?” And I tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is like after the candle is blown out, for I could not remember ever having seen such a thing.

After a while, finding that nothing more happened, I decided on going into the garden at once. But, alas for poor Alice! When I got to the door, I found I had forgotten the little golden key. When I went back to the table for it, I found I could not possibly reach.

it: she could see it quite plainly through the glass, and she tried her best to climb up one of the legs of the table, but it was too slippery; and when she had tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing sat down and cried.

“Come, there’s no use in crying like that!” said Alice to herself, rather sharply; “I advise you to leave off this minute!” She generally gave herself very good advice, (though she very seldom followed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to bring tears into her eyes; and once she remembered trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious child was very fond of pretending to be two people. “But it’s no use now,” thought poor Alice, “to pretend to be two people! Why, there’s hardly enough of me left to make _one_ respectable person!”

Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under the table: she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on which the words “EAT ME” were beautifully marked in currants. “Well, I’ll eat it,” said Alice, “and if it makes me grow larger, I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep under the door; so either way I’ll get into the garden, and I don’t care which happens!”

She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, “Which way? Which way?”, holding her hand on the top of her head to feel which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to find that she remained the same size: to be sure, this generally happens when one eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen, that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the common way.

So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.